README.md, before:

# OroRedisConfigBundle

Configuration enhancements for the application, based on the OroPlatform that will enable usage of the Redis for caching

## Configure Redis Servers

> Oro architecture require a least two instances of redis server. First instance will be used as fast persistent storage for sessions and second as LRU Cache storage.

### Ubuntu Xenial or later

Install redis-server via apt
``` bash
sudo apt install redis-server
```

#### Configure second instance as lru memory cache

Create folders for **redis-cache** server  
```bash
sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/redis-cache /var/log/redis-cache /var/run/redis-cache
sudo chown redis:redis /var/lib/redis-cache /var/log/redis-cache /var/run/redis-cache
```

Create tmpfiles config

```bash
echo "d /run/redis-cache 2775 redis redis -" | sudo tee /usr/lib/tmpfiles.d/redis-cache-server.conf
```

Copy original configs for second server
```bash
sudo cp -rp /etc/redis /etc/redis-cache
```

Replace all content in `/etc/redis-cache/redis.conf` with:  

```
daemonize yes
pidfile /var/run/redis-cache/redis-server.pid
port 6380
tcp-backlog 511
bind 127.0.0.1
timeout 0
tcp-keepalive 0
loglevel notice
logfile /var/log/redis-cache/redis-server.log
databases 16
maxmemory 256mb
maxmemory-policy allkeys-lru
stop-writes-on-bgsave-error no
rdbcompression yes
rdbchecksum yes
dbfilename dump.rdb
dir /var/lib/redis-cache
slave-serve-stale-data yes
slave-read-only yes
repl-diskless-sync no
repl-diskless-sync-delay 5
repl-disable-tcp-nodelay no
slave-priority 100
appendonly no
appendfilename "appendonly.aof"
appendfsync everysec
no-appendfsync-on-rewrite no
auto-aof-rewrite-percentage 100
auto-aof-rewrite-min-size 64mb
aof-load-truncated yes
lua-time-limit 5000
slowlog-log-slower-than 10000
slowlog-max-len 128
latency-monitor-threshold 0
notify-keyspace-events ""
hash-max-ziplist-entries 512
hash-max-ziplist-value 64
list-max-ziplist-entries 512
list-max-ziplist-value 64
set-max-intset-entries 512
zset-max-ziplist-entries 128
zset-max-ziplist-value 64
hll-sparse-max-bytes 3000
activerehashing yes
client-output-buffer-limit normal 0 0 0
client-output-buffer-limit slave 256mb 64mb 60
client-output-buffer-limit pubsub 32mb 8mb 60
hz 10
aof-rewrite-incremental-fsync yes
```

Create systemd unit `/lib/systemd/system/redis-cache-server.service` for **redis-cache** with following contents:
```yaml
[Unit]
Description=Redis-Cache
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=forking
ExecStart=/usr/bin/redis-server /etc/redis-cache/redis.conf
PIDFile=/var/run/redis-cache/redis-server.pid
TimeoutStopSec=0
Restart=always
User=redis
Group=redis

ExecStartPre=-/bin/run-parts --verbose /etc/redis-cache/redis-server.pre-up.d
ExecStartPost=-/bin/run-parts --verbose /etc/redis-cache/redis-server.post-up.d
ExecStop=-/bin/run-parts --verbose /etc/redis-cache/redis-server.pre-down.d
ExecStop=/bin/kill -s TERM $MAINPID
ExecStopPost=-/bin/run-parts --verbose /etc/redis-cache/redis-server.post-down.d

PrivateTmp=yes
PrivateDevices=yes
ProtectHome=yes
ReadOnlyDirectories=/
ReadWriteDirectories=-/var/lib/redis-cache
ReadWriteDirectories=-/var/log/redis-cache
ReadWriteDirectories=-/var/run/redis-cache
CapabilityBoundingSet=~CAP_SYS_PTRACE

ProtectSystem=true
ReadWriteDirectories=-/etc/redis-cache

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
Alias=redis-cache.service
```

Enable and start systemd unit

```bash
systemctl enable redis-cache-server.service
systemctl start redis-cache
```

Verify status of new service  

```bash
systemctl status redis-cache
```

### Install Package
Require package via composer
``` bash
composer require oro/redis-config 
```

### Configuration of Application for usage standalone redis
Update parameters.yml with next options:
``` yaml
session_handler:    'snc_redis.session.handler'
redis_dsn_session:  'redis://127.0.0.1:6379/0'
redis_dsn_cache:    'redis://127.0.0.1:6380/0'
redis_dsn_doctrine: 'redis://127.0.0.1:6380/1'
redis_setup: 'standalone'
```


### Configuration of Application for usage cluster redis
Update parameters.yml with next options:
````yaml
session_handler:    'snc_redis.session.handler'
redis_dsn_session:  ['redis://127.0.0.1:6379/0?alias=master','redis://127.0.0.1:6380/0']
redis_dsn_cache:    ['redis://127.0.0.1:6381/0?alias=master','redis://127.0.0.1:6382/0']
redis_dsn_doctrine: ['redis://127.0.0.1:6381/1?alias=master','redis://127.0.0.1:6382/0']
redis_setup: 'cluster'
````


### Configuration of Application for usage HA redis cluster : sentinel
Update parameters.yml with next options:
````yaml
session_handler:    'snc_redis.session.handler'
redis_dsn_session:  'tcp://172.28.128.3:26379/0'
redis_dsn_cache:    'tcp://172.28.128.3:26379/0'
redis_dsn_doctrine: 'tcp://172.28.128.3:26379/1'
redis_setup: 'sentinel'
redis_sentinel_master_name: 'mymaster'
redis_sentinel_prefer_slave: '172.28.128.128'
````
In this case need to provide redis-sentinel endpoint with db number for redis_dsn_session,redis_dsn_cache,redis_dsn_doctrine. 
In parameter redis_sentinel_master_name need to provide master service name, which configured in sentinel.conf
```yaml
sentinel monitor mymaster 172.28.128.3 2
```
For usage preferable slave (for example redis slave on application host) need to provide ip of redis slave, which works on application host.
In this case performance will be maximum available with minimal Network I/O.


And clear all filesystem caches

For more information check [SncRedisBundle Documentation](https://github.com/snc/SncRedisBundle/blob/master/Resources/doc/index.md)!

Commit message:

CS-3918: Implement cluster support for oro/redis-config-bundle  - added implementation for sentinel setup

README.md, after:

# OroRedisConfigBundle

Configuration enhancements for the application, based on the OroPlatform that will enable usage of the Redis for caching

## Configure Redis Servers

> Oro architecture require a least two instances of redis server. First instance will be used as fast persistent storage for sessions and second as LRU Cache storage.

### Ubuntu Xenial or later

Install redis-server via apt
``` bash
sudo apt install redis-server
```

#### Configure second instance as lru memory cache

Create folders for **redis-cache** server  
```bash
sudo mkdir -p /var/lib/redis-cache /var/log/redis-cache /var/run/redis-cache
sudo chown redis:redis /var/lib/redis-cache /var/log/redis-cache /var/run/redis-cache
```

Create tmpfiles config

```bash
echo "d /run/redis-cache 2775 redis redis -" | sudo tee /usr/lib/tmpfiles.d/redis-cache-server.conf
```

Copy original configs for second server
```bash
sudo cp -rp /etc/redis /etc/redis-cache
```

Replace all content in `/etc/redis-cache/redis.conf` with:  

```
daemonize yes
pidfile /var/run/redis-cache/redis-server.pid
port 6380
tcp-backlog 511
bind 127.0.0.1
timeout 0
tcp-keepalive 0
loglevel notice
logfile /var/log/redis-cache/redis-server.log
databases 16
maxmemory 256mb
maxmemory-policy allkeys-lru
stop-writes-on-bgsave-error no
rdbcompression yes
rdbchecksum yes
dbfilename dump.rdb
dir /var/lib/redis-cache
slave-serve-stale-data yes
slave-read-only yes
repl-diskless-sync no
repl-diskless-sync-delay 5
repl-disable-tcp-nodelay no
slave-priority 100
appendonly no
appendfilename "appendonly.aof"
appendfsync everysec
no-appendfsync-on-rewrite no
auto-aof-rewrite-percentage 100
auto-aof-rewrite-min-size 64mb
aof-load-truncated yes
lua-time-limit 5000
slowlog-log-slower-than 10000
slowlog-max-len 128
latency-monitor-threshold 0
notify-keyspace-events ""
hash-max-ziplist-entries 512
hash-max-ziplist-value 64
list-max-ziplist-entries 512
list-max-ziplist-value 64
set-max-intset-entries 512
zset-max-ziplist-entries 128
zset-max-ziplist-value 64
hll-sparse-max-bytes 3000
activerehashing yes
client-output-buffer-limit normal 0 0 0
client-output-buffer-limit slave 256mb 64mb 60
client-output-buffer-limit pubsub 32mb 8mb 60
hz 10
aof-rewrite-incremental-fsync yes
```

Create systemd unit `/lib/systemd/system/redis-cache-server.service` for **redis-cache** with following contents:
```yaml
[Unit]
Description=Redis-Cache
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=forking
ExecStart=/usr/bin/redis-server /etc/redis-cache/redis.conf
PIDFile=/var/run/redis-cache/redis-server.pid
TimeoutStopSec=0
Restart=always
User=redis
Group=redis

ExecStartPre=-/bin/run-parts --verbose /etc/redis-cache/redis-server.pre-up.d
ExecStartPost=-/bin/run-parts --verbose /etc/redis-cache/redis-server.post-up.d
ExecStop=-/bin/run-parts --verbose /etc/redis-cache/redis-server.pre-down.d
ExecStop=/bin/kill -s TERM $MAINPID
ExecStopPost=-/bin/run-parts --verbose /etc/redis-cache/redis-server.post-down.d

PrivateTmp=yes
PrivateDevices=yes
ProtectHome=yes
ReadOnlyDirectories=/
ReadWriteDirectories=-/var/lib/redis-cache
ReadWriteDirectories=-/var/log/redis-cache
ReadWriteDirectories=-/var/run/redis-cache
CapabilityBoundingSet=~CAP_SYS_PTRACE

ProtectSystem=true
ReadWriteDirectories=-/etc/redis-cache

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
Alias=redis-cache.service
```

Enable and start systemd unit

```bash
systemctl enable redis-cache-server.service
systemctl start redis-cache
```

Verify status of new service  

```bash
systemctl status redis-cache
```

### Install Package
Require package via composer
``` bash
composer require oro/redis-config 
```

### Configuration of Application for standalone redis setup
Update parameters.yml with next options:
``` yaml
session_handler:    'snc_redis.session.handler'
redis_dsn_session:  'redis://127.0.0.1:6379/0'
redis_dsn_cache:    'redis://127.0.0.1:6380/0'
redis_dsn_doctrine: 'redis://127.0.0.1:6380/1'
redis_setup: 'standalone'
```


### Configuration of Application for redis cluster setup
Update parameters.yml with next options:
````yaml
session_handler:    'snc_redis.session.handler'
redis_dsn_session:  ['redis://127.0.0.1:6379/0?alias=master','redis://127.0.0.1:6380/0']
redis_dsn_cache:    ['redis://127.0.0.1:6381/0?alias=master','redis://127.0.0.1:6382/0']
redis_dsn_doctrine: ['redis://127.0.0.1:6381/1?alias=master','redis://127.0.0.1:6382/0']
redis_setup: 'cluster'
````


### Configuration of Application for usage sentinel redis setup
Update parameters.yml with next options:
````yaml
session_handler:    'snc_redis.session.handler'
redis_dsn_session:  ['redis://127.0.0.1:26379/0','redis://127.0.0.1:26379/0']
redis_dsn_cache:    ['redis://127.0.0.1:26379/1','redis://127.0.0.1:26379/1']
redis_dsn_doctrine: ['redis://127.0.0.1:26379/2','redis://127.0.0.1:26379/2']
redis_setup: 'sentinel'
redis_sentinel_master_name: 'mymaster'
redis_sentinel_prefer_slave: '127.0.0.1'
````
In this case it is required to provide redis-sentinel endpoints with db numbers for redis_dsn_session,redis_dsn_cache,redis_dsn_doctrine. 
In parameter redis_sentinel_master_name master service name, which configured in sentinel.conf, needs to be provided
```yaml
sentinel monitor mymaster 127.0.0.1 2
```
Parameter redis_sentinel_prefer_slave is responsible for selection preferable slave node via IP address in case if cluster has 
a few slaves and it needs to connect to specific one
Also, please pay attention, you have to set up at least 2 sentinel endpoints, otherwise intergation will not work.

### Related links

- [SncRedisBundle Documentation](https://github.com/snc/SncRedisBundle/blob/master/Resources/doc/index.md)
- [PedisBundle Documentation](https://github.com/nrk/predis)
- [Redis Sentinel Documentation](https://redis.io/topics/sentinel)
- [Redis cluster tutorial](https://redis.io/topics/cluster-tutorial)
